Another thing you could do,
now for cell with Next.js,
we call it incremental
static regeneration.
But there are frameworks that have other
approaches with kind of a stale while
revalidate approach.
And this is also to kind
of add this dynamic data.
So we can opt into only pre-render,
a subset of all the pages, and
render everything else on demand.
So let's say we know we
have 1,000 listings.
We only want to make sure that we
pre-render the latest 20 listings
that are maybe visible instantly to the
user and that the user is likely to click.
But everything else will
be generated on demand.
So in that case, the statically generated
page, when a user requests a page that
hasn't been generated yet, can still
be cached by a CDN because it's static.
So it's really only the first user
that request those pages that
haven't been generated yet
that might experience worst performance.
But everyone else can still
experience from this cache or
benefit from this cache response.
And then also we have
the stale while revalidate.
So we can automatically invalidate
the cache of this static page after
a certain time.
So if a user requests a stale page, so it
has been cached for longer than we showed,
it will automatically regenerate that in
the background and replace the cache.
So a user will initially
see the stale content, but
the next time they request it,
they automatically see this new data.
Because the getStaticProps method again
run in the background, in Next.js's case,
in a serverless function, but
it could also be in your server.
So this is a great way to have this
dynamic data maybe based on a certain
interval and to make sure that your
users are still able to see something
because there's always a cached response.
I won't really go too much into the
implementation of this one just because
this is so Next.js specific.
And it's more about the possibilities
with static rendering and
how you could possibly add dynamic data.
Now, the other very popular
pattern is server-side rendering.
So with server-side rendering,
we generate the HTML, so
all the HTML on the server or
serverless function on every request.
So the user request the page,
we just generate it and
we show it to them right away.
And then, of course, we have to create or
make an additional request to
fetch the bundle to hydrate
those static HTML elements.
And this is a great way if the page that
you're rendering is highly dynamic or
just contains any data that
is within that request.
Maybe a user cookie, I don't know,
maybe missing authentication states.
But in general, you probably wanna
avoid server-side rendering cuz,
as you can see, the page still had to
be generated or the user requests it.
And this could take a while.
So it's still great for
those dynamic pages, but for
just a normal standalone application,
you might not need it.
So in React, we can actually implement
server-side rendering with, for
example, a renderToString, and
then the hydrateRoot on the client.
So it gets that, it makes the DOM tree,
and it then hydrates it.
Hydrating, you're adding
those event listeners.
Again, yeah, so next, we can use
server-side rendering with instead of
using getStaticProps,
we can just use getServerSideProps.
And this will automatically
server render this page.
So for example here, If I,
Go in here.
Now, from a user perspective,
this won't be that much different compared
to static rendering because the return
HTML is the exact same as we saw before.
However, this HTML is generated on
demand on the server instead of
pre-generated at build time, maybe on
your own device, on some built server.
Now, the performance for
server-side rendering and
static rendering look pretty similar.
But the biggest difference here
is the time to first byte.
Because it can take a while from when
a user requests it to when the server can
actually respond with the data
that it still has to generate.
So when the time to first byte is slow,
the user just looks at a blank page,
which is not great.
You probably wanna avoid that.
But it's still great for
having those very personalized pages or
any page that's render blocking, really.
Cuz we can just say,
you don't have the right cookie,
you don't have the right
authentication state.
I don't want to render this page.
And another downside to server-side
rendering is if you're using a server or
a Lambda, and your server goes down or
your region goes down, so
does your website.
Cuz there's usually not a cached version,
unless you add a cache control.
But in most cases when you use SSR,
you don't wanna use cache control.
Because there shouldn't be a cached
version cuz it's personalized on every
request, or it should be.
That's the best use case for
server rendering.
So that's definitely a downside.
It's just more to maintain.
Now, currently,
a lot of people are also exploring
with streaming server-side rendering.
So the biggest difference
here is with normal SSR,
we had to create the entire HTML and
fetch the entire bundle and
parse this bundle before
any hydration can begin.
We had to wait for
all the components to be ready before
any component could be ready, really.
While with streaming server rendering,
the components get streamed as soon
as they're generated on the server.
So we see it can be generated
in smaller parts, and
also something called
progressively hydrated.
So whereas normal hydration, we had to
wait for the entire bundle to be ready,
parsed before the entire
tree was hydrated.
With progressive hydration,
we can actually say, okay,
just hydrate this component, just hydrate
that component as soon as it's ready.
So this is great for performance as we
can instantly show our users like, okay,
these smaller components are ready.
So show them, don't wait for these larger
components to generate on the server cuz
that could end up in
a bad time to first byte.
So the performance here looks interesting.
So as it streamed down,
we don't really have one big,
I guess the blue was, wait,
I just gotta make sure of that.
I guess that is parsing HTML.
Yeah, so here, it parses the HTML layout
panes and parses it again, layout pane,
because it's constantly getting it.
It's like a stream,
which is great for, as you can see,
the time to first byte is extremely
fast because the smallest component
can stream as soon as it's ready.
And also the first contentful pane can be
really fast because the first component
can already render.
And it can be interactive if it
uses a progressive hydration.
The largest contentful pane is still the
same as with normal server-side rendering
in most cases.
Because we still have to wait for
that entire component to be generated and
then rendered, hydrated, all that stuff.
Yeah, it's also great for
the network backpressure.
And the only downside is that the HTTP
streaming is not supported on
all runtimes yet.
So in some cases,
I believe that Lambda doesn't support it.
I may be wrong here, but maybe you've
deployed your server rendered app
somewhere in a runtime that
does support streaming.
In that case, you can't use it.
But yeah, that's really the only downside.
Now, I didn't cover this here, but
with the new React server components,
this is actually a big part of that.
Because streaming SSR kind of allows us
to have a partially statically generated
page, and then partially SSR page.
Because we can SSR certain components.
It's not like the entire
page like we saw before.
So we can static render the static parts
of a page, which is great for performance.
And then only server render any components
that need that server-specific data.
So that's very exciting.